Turn AI potential
into AI results:
8 steps to success
in manufacturing

Your plan for unleashing the power of
AI everywhere. That’s AI at work.

Authored by:
Cam Lau, Eugene Wyniawskyj
Strategic Engagement and Transformation, UiPathContents

3 Introduction
4  Driving AI through automation
5  Defining mission objectives for AI success
6  Building a transformation action plan
6   - Step 1: Understand the business’ strategic problem statements
8   - Step 2: Identify the top-down value at stake
9   - Step 3: Verify the inside-out value potential
10   - Step 4: Define the software and data reference architecture
12   - Step 5: Envision the future of AI-powered automation
13   - Step 6: Scale up and down the value chain
15   - Step 7: Operationalize AI
16   - Step 8: Build a holistic investment case on total cost of
ownership and AI potential
17  Achieving strategic outcomes

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 2Introduction

Rising material costs and supply chain disruptions.
Decarbonization and net zero pressures. Rising customer
expectation, skills shortages and increasing regulatory
scrutiny. There’s a perfect storm on the horizon and
manufacturers know they need to adapt. Increasingly,
they’re turning to technology to help them do it.
Automation is already changing the landscape in both
discrete and process manufacturing—reducing operating
costs, removing bottlenecks and magnifying output. The
impact of artificial intelligence (AI) across the sector could
be even greater. But it can’t do it alone.
Despite the hype, generative AI (Gen AI) isn’t the panacea
for all organizations. However, Gen AI marks the point  at
which powerful and easy-to-use AI has become accessible to
manufacturers.  Leaders must adapt to this new reality—
and do so in a considered and strategic way.
AI, working in tandem with automation, represents an
enormous opportunity for executives and C-suite. But
actualizing that potential to deliver real business results
has been far more challenging. The proportion of “AI high
performers”—McKinsey’s term for enterprises seeing 20% or
more earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) from AI—has
remained stubbornly unchanged at 8%. AI leaders are pulling
ahead while the rest are coasting along in second gear.
Most manufacturing executives are faced with the dilemma
of strategizing for a technology they don’t fully understand.
However, they do know it’s critical to the future. They want to
harness AI and automation to drive operational excellence,
accelerate revenue growth add streamline customer
experiences—while improving compliance, sustainability,
and risk management. But many manufacturing
organizations aren’t set up—in terms of enablement or
technology—to take advantage.
Manufacturers should opt for a holistic
strategy. One that brings the agility and speed
of automation together with new Gen AI and
Specialized AI capabilities to drive operational
excellence, accelerate revenue growth and
streamline customer experiences. All while
improving compliance, sustainability, and risk
management.
This white paper provides a replicable
strategy to help manufacturing leaders turn
AI potential into AI results.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 3Driving AI through
automation

Every dollar saved reducing supply chain friction. Every
second of downtime eliminated. Every ounce of waste
reduced. Every sales engagement accelerated and after-
sales process improved. It all adds up to big wins today and
major growth opportunities tomorrow. And it’s delivered
by automation and AI.
Having adopted automation early, manufacturers have
been quick to recognize the potential of augmenting this
technology with AI. According to research, the value of the
global AI in manufacturing market will increase from $3.2
billion in 2023 to $20.8 billion by 2028. And there’s growing
excitement around the ability of AI and automation to drive
Industry 4.0 and new generation Industry 5.0 initiatives.
A Bain & Company survey found that 74% of organizations
expect a positive ROI from their AI-driven automation
initiatives—with 56% saying the combination of automation
and AI (and machine learning) will make “the most profound
impact”.
“We’re here to ‘brew’ the robot out of the person.
Automation will help people in their jobs. It will free up time
to focus on value-added activities and being creative. It will
fuel Heineken growth.”
Lucy Todorovska,
Global Hyperautomation Product Manager
To realize this ROI, a value-based strategy is required to
secure the people, processes, and technology to deliver AI at
scale. This starts by understanding business value over three,
four and five years, the investment case, and the evolution in
the reference architecture. Of course, manufacturers won’t
have to wait that long to achieve value. A fast start will deliver
significant returns quickly.
A definition of the potential value at stake aligned to key
business drivers—and the corresponding investment case—
is needed. This not only justifies the why, it allows you to
articulate the where, what, and how needed to achieve the
value potential.

By putting AI and automation into action,
automotive manufacturer Volvo has reduced
operating cost by 40%. Semi-conductor giant
Intel has streamlined cross-border shipping
processes by removing 85% of manual hours
from its trade screening compliance. Consumer
electronics leader Arçelik has transformed over
85 process and is saving over $1.1 million a year.
And, by 2025, Heineken expects to save over one
million hours across the business through its
automation-at-scale program. The list goes on.
All of this can be achieved by
bringing the transformative force
of AI to life in the organization
through automation. And doing it in
a highly consultative, analytical, and
strategic manner.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 4Defining mission objectives
for AI success

Manufacturing leaders have done a tremendous job driving
change in these volatile times. Many UiPath customers are
driving transformation and achieving significant business
value—increasing productivity, boosting revenue growth,
improving sustainability and more— by putting AI and
automation to work across their organizations.
However, for many executives, the personal ambition to
lead on AI and automation transformation is a constant
battle of skill, not will. Historically, these transformations
in the manufacturing sector have been intricate, with a mix
of legacy systems and cutting-edge data science initiatives.
The most prevalent form of AI and automation projects
mirrors ‘digital’ variations of Lean Six Sigma-style operational
excellence programs, focusing on efficiency and compliance.
At UiPath, we understand the unique objections and
challenges faced in the manufacturing sector when
embarking on AI and automation projects. A frequent
concern is articulating the business case ROI and tangible
value of AI and automation.
Starting and sustaining long-term strategic transformation
with AI and automation in manufacturing is difficult. It
requires a deep understanding of the technology and
business challenges, proprietary modeling, and benchmarks
per line of business, and per operation. This is coupled with
a general lack of clarity around value—and the challenges in
moving from basic cost or time-saved value drivers to more
strategic manufacturing-focused measures like supply chain
improvement, downtime mitigation and enhancements
throughout the product lifecycle.
Common challenges:
• Automation savings not tightly linked to
board-level KPIs
• Low ROI realized and diminishing value
delivered to date (e.g., productivity becomes
a key metric, not profit and loss (P&L)
impact, etc.)
• Value not sized in logical units a business
unit and/or function can actualize (e.g.,
there’s no value in automating a subprocess
that happens for five mins—once a year)
• Automation programs stuck in piloting or
PoC scope
• Prohibitive cost of implementation and
maintenance due to the increasing costs of
niche tech talent
• Avoiding technical debt across the complex
ecosystem of different point solutions
• Questions around AI systems’ compliance
with existing and emerging regulations
These existential challenges need to be solved to unleash
the potential of AI. Our approach informs an overall strategy
that allows our leading clients to design and articulate
the vision, value, and roadmap to deliver value at scale
across the organization. Bolstering your operating posture,
pioneering innovation, and empowering your teams to
ignite productivity and growth, pioneer sustainability, and
improve field and customer experiences—all while slashing
inefficiencies, wait times, and errors.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 5Building a transformation action plan

Step 1: Understand the business’ strategic problem statements

The best place to start is to look at the strategic objectives that may be in flight in the organization, this  isn’t a
set by the board. It’s important to understand the problem comprehensive list. It does, however, offer a useful context
statements and corresponding objectives before embarking for the kind of transformation planning needed today.
on a transformative change journey. When asked about
problem solving, Albert Einstein famously said, “If I had an Defining enterprise problem statements that can be
hour to solve a problem—I’d spend 55 minutes thinking about addressed with AI isn’t easy. But, by looking at what
the problem and 5 minutes thinking about solutions.” drives value for your business, it’s possible to focus on
the concepts and principles that make up the rest of the
Figure 1 illustrates different types of mission goals transformation plan.
across enterprise, divisional, and process transformation
archetypes. Considering all the different transformations

FIGURE 1
Examples of mission goals across three organizational levels:
enterprise, divisional, and process

Enterprise
transformation
Foster enterprise agility by
nurturing creativity, collaboration,
and innovation
Divisional
transformation
Digitize the division across
non-digital products, services, or
operations
Process
transformation
Reduce waste in time, effort,
and materials to drive operating
expense efficiency

New or upgrade: skills, people, A layer bringing in the new and Diagnose
processes elevating the old

A gateway to latest intelligent and A platform for
New or upgrade: processes all stages of Improve
cognitive tech and technology improvement

New or upgrade: New or upgrade: Monitor
core manufacturing applications core manufacturing applications

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 6UiPath has helped many manufacturing organizations
answer these questions:
• “What does an increase of 10% operational capacity do
to my operating margin?”
• “How does this link to EBITDA and operating margin
earnings per share?”
• “How do we enable a four-day work week?”
• “What pain points are we not solving that impact how
we are perceived by our end-customers?”
Defining the problem statement isn’t just about
identifying points of resistance and operational pain.
Figure 2 illustrates how the balance between resistance
and innovation needs to be explored to truly maximize the
value AI-powered automation can bring. Once a clear view
on the problem statement is made, sizing the potential
value of the solution is the critical next step to delivering
that value.

FIGURE 2
Innovation initiatives are often met with internal resistance

Innovation Resistance

Reasons to innovate Points of resistance

Competitor moves
Macro-economic challenges
(changing regulations and
geopolitics)
New entrants
Growing expectations of
shareholders and customers
Free up working capital,
buoyancy in volatile supply
chains
Declining barriers to new tech
Non-competitive time to
market
Aging populations and attrition
Lack of technology investment
across value chain
Lack of skills and talent
Lack of reinforcing
mechanisms
Complex legacy manufacturing
systems and technology
Lack of role modeling
Lack of education and
understanding by operations

Example interventions
Automate
Launch new Improve employee Moonshot
products to market experiences with projects to win
through new and contemporary AI hearts and minds
existing channels technologies
Example interventions
Discover Automate Operate
Understand what Connect the dots Ideate and govern
truly pains your front and back and digital maturity with
stakeholders with deliver a new way of Automation Hub—a
digital twins working across the single source of truth
entire value chain

Source: UiPath Strategic Engagements and Transformation Experts

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 7Step 2: Identify the top-line value at stake

Sizing up what will solve the problem statements is key to These can include operating margin, profit and loss (P&L), days
justifying the reasons for embarking on the execution and sales outstanding (DSO), working capital, net promoter score
delivery of these levers. A proper value analysis helps set up (NPS) /customer satisfaction score (CSAT), and even risk and
a successful transformation by sizing the opportunity along compliance. These value drivers end up being hugely important
with the most important business value drivers. KPIs to measure success.

FIGURE 3
A top-down approach helps maximize success
and scale AI and automation transformation

Top-down approach Bottom-up approach

Start with executive visioning around
automation and value at stake

Establish yearly automation goals by
functional area
Lack of alignment between
business and CoE

Plan and budget for resources,
and define enterprise reference
architecture with AI and automation
CoE persuades business to find
more automation ideas

Form an intelligent AI,
automation operating
model, centers of excellence
Few more automations within
the same business solution

Diagnose and build AI and
automation use case pipeline
prioritized by strategic goals
Establish a CoE

Business and CoEs co-lead to drive
fast value realization
Few automations in one of the
business functions

Start with a small POC

Better business outcomes, teams work
together to achieve common goals
Good start but not scalable and holistic

Identifying the value potential can be an extremely difficult
and manual task. That’s especially true when there’s
no process or operational taxonomy, the data quality
in telemetry is poor, or there’s a lack of business and
operational teams in place to track and gather insights.
Defining the value of aligning your program to core value
drivers and problem statements helps the transformation
to focus in on areas of specific attention. Most importantly,
it identifies the specific AI and automation levers that are
needed to be deployed.
A top-down approach drives better outcomes when
compared to the more commonly seen bottom-up
approach, as shown in Figure 3. UiPath has worked with
manufacturing organizations that have faced a wide
range of scenarios, and this is where technology can really
help. They’ve leveraged top-down mining technologies
like UiPath Communications Mining and UiPath Process
Mining, in combination with proprietary AI and automation
benchmarks. This meant they could build a data-driven fact
base that allows them to identify (without the need for deep
SMEs) the “big rock” opportunities for digitization, LEAN,
automation, and AI within an entire business. Furthermore,
it helped them set up the foundation to measure the
effectiveness of all transformation initiatives in-scope.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 8Step 3: Verify the inside-out value potential

A top-down sizing of value potential needs bottom- considered for applicability and effectiveness
up verification. Historically, this part of the strategic at this stage.
transformation is delivered through deep-dive interviews and
workshops run by an ecosystem of consulting partners. Here, analysis often incorporates existing automation
maturity and AI penetration to shed light on the factors that
The objective of this step is to capture key process information erode the aspirational automation potential. A platform-
and pain points, and to develop a target-state architecture in centric approach at this stage is usually articulated with
the business. Specific product features, off-the- shelf resources great detail and benefits extend beyond the hard savings of
like solution accelerators and marketplace use cases, are specific use cases alone.

FIGURE 4
There’s value in AI and automation transformation beyond
the hard savings delivered by individual use cases

Total impact from AI and automation
Hard AI and automation savings from use cases 60%
30%
Unify the business user experience Reduction in IA
TCO spend
Platform benefits
Access global talent pools to drive down 10%
Increased success 40%
implementation cost chance

Scale AI and automation libraries
200%
Faster time to
value delivery

Reduce IT OPEX TCO
20%
Reduction in
OPEX services

Total P&L impact

Source: 2023 - Strategic Engagement Study of High Maturity Fortune 500 Customer

Leading manufacturers leverage UiPath and its consulting
partners to bring to life proprietary industry and line
of business data sets, combined with task and activity
capturing technologies—like UiPath Task Mining—to align to
the daily practicalities of business operations. This results in
a confident and actionable pipeline of use cases.
However, real-world use cases are only a fraction of the total
value at stake. Figure 4 illustrates how P&L impact beyond
the hard savings can be achieved by embracing an overall
AI-powered automation platform.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 9Step 4: Define the software and data reference architecture

Once we know where to play, the next step is making sure
we know how to play. It’s important to thoroughly analyze
the enterprise technology stack. Only by identifying the
potential blockers here can enterprise risk and agility can
be managed and optimized.
Defining what ‘good’ looks like across the enterprise
architecture’s core systems of record, differentiation, and
innovation—overlayed with AI and automation use cases
that span across the stack—is key to knowing how to
leverage these technologies strategically.
For example, a strategy that solely relies on API integration
to connect core manufacturing systems will fall short in
capturing the full potential brought about by user interface
data integrations. Similarly, a strategy that just focuses
on core RPA—without exploring how digital assistants
and Gen AI fit into the workflow—won’t maximize the
value the technology could bring to the operation. Finally,
clients often have myriad intelligent automation tools
in their enterprise stack, and miss the value potential of
consolidating and reducing the number of point-solution
vendors.
Figure 5 illustrates how a system of AI-powered
automation should be treated as omnipresent—
surrounding and running throughout the manufacturer’s
core systems.

FIGURE 5
Systems of AI and automation need to be wrapped
around the enterprise’s entire technology stack

Systems of AI and automation
Business-centric automation platform

Systems of innovation
Consumer focused, new applications, business models
Continuous discovery and monitoring
Low-code apps Workflows Analytics LLMs and AI
expert systems UI and API integration
Systems of differentiation
Unique processes and capabilities, SaaS, modules of a platform

Customized
interfaces
Intelligent document
processing

Systems of record
Core transactional processing mission critical master data

Unified management
and governance
Analytics
Continuous
testing

Source: 2023 - Strategic Engagement Study of High Maturity Fortune 500 Customer

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 10AI data architecture requirements need to be considered
holistically. The manufacturer’s architecture should be
scalable and performant, capable of integrating and
centralizing data from various sources while making sure
data quality and governance. It must prioritize security
and privacy measures, provide agility and flexibility for
iterative experimentation, and promote collaboration and
accessibility.
A traditional approach is to leverage a big data approach—
also known as a data lake—so enterprises can extract
valuable insights from large and complex datasets. However,
maintaining a data lake demands careful governance
and data management practices. By contrast, managing
federated data sources as part of a single system reduces
data duplication and improves privacy. But it could also
involve more complex data integration processes that
present challenges in ensuring real-time data availability.
This is where introducing an AI and automation layer
can help aggregate the highest-priority data quicker and
cheaper—so it’s ready to be consumed by your AI models.
Ultimately, strategizing for data depends both on regulatory
environments and what the business wants to achieve with
its AI-powered automation system.
Consider the current wave of GenAI technologies. There’s
a need for executives to understand the impact this has
on business operations in the immediate term. While most
vendors ensure the stability, security, and governance of
their services, it’s hard to visualize how this translates to
the organization.
UiPath follows a platform-based approach
to deploying both GenAI and Specialized
AI. This allows standardized, governed,
and secure ways of introducing these
breakthrough technologies to people and
processes effectively. And with an open
approach, GenAI models can be natively
built into all aspects of the UiPath Business
Automation PlatformTM—which can scale
throughout the entire value chain.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 11Step 5: Envision the future of AI-powered automation

Imagine a world with 10X more creativity and inspiration, example of how the activities and processes of a typical back
starting new businesses and entering new markets at office worker may be augmented and streamlined with AI and
a moment’s notice, where every employee is 10X more automation in the loop.
productive. Deployed correctly, AI-powered automation
creates an environment in which your employees thrive. AI can impact the way an organization manages people and
culture, because lasting change and sustainable business
Another way to envision the benefits is through the lens impact require a holistic uptake.
of your employees’ daily activities. Figure 6 provides an

FIGURE 6
An example of how GenAI, Specialized AI, and automation
technologies come together to augment work

Automation can augment the day in the life of employees

Core system process Processes worked on in a month Time saving potential
automation
Human-in-the-loop 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
process automation

Individual general
knowledge tasks
(automation + Gen AI)
Physical activity
Back-office
employee

% of employee time 10% 15% 10% 16% 7% 4% 10% 8% 15% 5%

Different work activity
archetypes
Manually transacting across
different core systems of record
Scope for automation + AI
Applying business rules and logic
to different scenarios
Creating and synthesizing new
artefacts and insights

Human-in- UI + API
Automation capabilities UI + API integrations the-loop + integrations Digital assistants + Generative AI models
often deployed

Source: Illustrative figures provided by UiPath

Cultural adoption is a key workstream for any transformation Making sure that executives are aware of your AI and
plan. The plan may also align with broader corporate change automation ambition—and how people, processes, and
strategies and in-flight business programs. This could include technology stack will be impacted—will deliver faster and
tapping into existing capabilities and change management more scalable programs.
content being delivered as part of an SAP S/4 Hana migration,
Agile customer journey re-design, or business process
optimization (BPO) offshoring migration.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 12Step 6: Scale up and down the value chain

Guaranteeing that any AI-powered transformation program
can achieve its full potential requires a perspective on how
it can scale across the entire value chain. While end-to-end
(E2E) is often overused, customers that achieve it follow a
two-speed approach, as shown in Figure 7:

FIGURE 7
Two common approaches when driving automation at scale

Strategic E2E transformation

Design thinking, new process design, and process redesign
Long-term
EBITDA impact

Change management and value governance

In-year tactical delivery

Well defined discovery methods:
task ideation, triage, and prioritization
In-year
P&L impact

Asset libraries and standardized delivery

The first is strategic. The full end-to-end redesign of a process
or operation using digital technology, AI, and automation
is the primary objective and end-state. Typically, this sees
the reimagination of entire cross-functional processes and
customer journeys.
The strategic approach takes the best of design thinking
practices and overlays an end user appreciation for the
target state journey. This drives more holistic business
outcomes, often on an order of magnitude higher than a more
tactical approach. Often, the strategic horizon leans on large
programs of product engineering, new business building and,
in extreme cases, mergers and acquisitions (M&A) to actualize
the value over multiple years.
However, this approach isn’t without its risks and challenges.
That’s why a comprehensive strategy always includes a plan
for a second speed. This rapid and tactical speed is pragmatic
and underpins the in-year business case through tactical line
of business delivery.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 13The second is tactical, and begins with the highest
automation potential (e.g., corporate functions, customer
care) and articulating key personas and activity archetypes
that’ll allow the transformation to begin capturing in-year
value. Often this approach identifies entry and exit points
along bigger and broader canonical processes, which results
in more backlog and pipeline for First Speed.
As the time-to-value for the tactical approach is vastly quicker,
this sometimes becomes a point of contention with other big
business programs in flight. This can sometimes result in what
we know as use-case ‘sniping’, where one change program
takes the use case and benefit statement from an opportunity
area from another. For example, a common scenario, during
an ERP migration to cloud, a transformation program run by
UiPath was undermined by an IT change program that had
the imperative to grow its existing scope and add the use
cases identified to their backlog. This wasn’t suitable for the
business as changes were estimated to take two years.
UiPath would have solved the pain point in a matter of
months. However, with strategic partnerships with ERP
vendors, these situations should no longer arise.
A strategic plan for scale needs to be articulated, syndicated,
and agreed upfront. Most importantly, a plan to articulate
how the different business benefits are captured and
recognized among the many concurrent change programs
that are being delivered by other stakeholders.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 14Step 7: Operationalize AI

Operationalizing and scaling AI requires a holistic operating Our leading manufacturing customers set up holistic
model that’s agile, comprehensive, and proactively resilient. operating models to capture ‘who’ is needed and ‘how’
Mapping the interactions across an organization in this AI can be scaled across the manufacturing organization.
operating model helps manage risk—identifying potential
issues before they become problems. This strategy is anchored on the following four principles:

1. Being realistic with existing automation and AI maturity: regardless of whether a manufacturer is starting from
a greenfield or brownfield environment, a large upfront focus on the operating model design will depend on existing
support processes, as well as discover and delivery capabilities. Determining whether existing processes are enough
or new ones need to be designed.
2. Tightly linking organizational priorities, OKRs, and KPIs: translating and cascading corporate strategic KPIs
to the individuals in the business unit is key to ensure success and continuous adoption of any AI and automation
program. Understand how each objective/KPI can be impacted by the different components of the platform
technologies at your disposal.
3. Maintain a focus on agility, but don’t forget about the merits of waterfalling: agility is key to delivering
transformative impact with AI-powered automation. Because of the tight dependency on business operations, Agile
delivery methodology in isolation won’t work. Deploying AI-powered automation requires a real focus on change
management to mitigate the associated disruption to live operational processes, teams, and customers. Not just the
use-case definition and specific process improvements it’ll bring.
4. Achieving competitive advantage without jeopardizing ethics: as AI finds its way into every aspect of the
manufacturing organization, strict guidelines must be in place to ensure democracy, legitimacy, and transparency as
AI and automation are scaled and operationalized. Defining the personas that need the most attention and actively
managing AI training data inputs to minimize unforeseen biases is the best first step to ensure ethical safeguards.
For example, business processes and technological guardrails will prevent AI-driven processes from discriminating
against end-consumers. These guardrails range from human-in-the-loop reviews, to strict data cleansing and model
retraining ML operations. A plan that captures the widest range of scenarios is key to making sure AI and automation
are operationalized sustainably and successfully.

Leading UiPath manufacturing customers adopt a agile methodology and scrum teams driving delivery and
hybrid approach to their operating models, built on enablement. Plus, a highly iterative top-down diagnosis,
the understanding that AI systems aren’t infallible and discovery, and delivery focuses the team on value capture,
require human supervision. This hybrid model involves ethical deployment, and security.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 15Step 8: Build a holistic investment case on total cost of
ownership and AI potential

Formulating an investment case that forecasts the real value
of an AI program can only be done by including total cost
of ownership (TCO) in your analysis. Accurately calculating
the impact of new roles and people, new technology and
infrastructure, and new investments in change management
is needed to get to a real ROI figure.
Our manufacturing customers often model out benefit
growth due to near-term emerging and improving
technologies, while conversely becoming more aggressive
when modeling out costs due to economies of scale and
emerging unified platforms.
It’s important to note that GenAI and Specialized AI are
much like RPA back in 2016. When these technologies were
introduced into the organization in isolation, companies
faced exploding IT operating costs and shadow IT. It wasn’t
until the consolidation of the market and a holistic platform-
based approach started to emerge that ROI started to turn
positive.
AI is at this same inflection point, akin to the early days of
RPA, where point solutions and vendors vied for the same
fixed budgets. Should history be repeated, the inefficiencies
of managing an estate of disparate technologies will (again)
drive up IT operational costs and increase TCO.
In contrast, a unified platform-based approach like UiPath—
especially with its focus on GenAI and Specialized AI
integration for the whole organization—will do the reverse.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 16Achieving strategic outcomes

Embracing AI strategically can unlock numerous benefits for
the manufacturer. From enhanced operational efficiency and
improved decision making to elevated customer experiences
and a sustainable competitive advantage, the value is
considerable.
It’s important to develop a well-defined strategy that
understands strategic business challenges, benchmarks
value, and thinks strategically about how to operationalize
and scale AI-powered automation.
By doing so, the business will be able to capitalize on the
potential cost and capacity benefits from AI and automation
to drive growth and success.
Understanding the common pitfalls and the lessons learned
by peers can help you step beyond hours and dollars saved
to achieve top-line, strategic business value. UiPath proudly
shares customers’ strategic success in line with four vital
business outcomes:

1. Cost transformation: cost transformation means achieving better results, having spent time and money
wisely. Introducing AI-powered automation into the workplace allows businesses to streamline more
processes, reducing the need for manual interventions and reorienting employees to high-value work. The
result is more efficient and agile processes, with a greater focus on customers and business outcomes.
2. Profitable growth: increasing profits while maintaining or even reducing margins across your business. By
introducing AI-powered automation into the workplace, manufacturers can improve customer engagement,
increase productive innovation, and launch new services and products more quickly. The result is higher
margin growth and expanding revenue streams thanks to a renewed focus on customer acquisition, retention,
and growth.
3. Managed risk and maximized compliance: a combined AI and automation approach can play a crucial role
in managing the risk and compliance challenges facing today’s manufacturers. By implementing an intelligent
platform that quickly incorporates new compliance rules, organizations can keep up with evolving regulations
and reduce the risk of non-compliance. The business impact is significant, driving efficiency, reducing costs,
and increasing customer trust.
4. Improved customer experience and increased employee engagement: by streamlining systems and
processes, manufacturers can enhance the overall customer and employee experience. Organizations that use
automation to improve employee experience can attract and retain the best talent. They’ll not just become
an employer of choice, a happier workforce will boost customer satisfaction through improved interaction,
support, and service. Which will drive loyalty and revenue growth.

To see how the world’s most successful manufacturers  are embedding
AI-powered automation into customer experience, lending, risk mitigation,
and much more, visit the UiPath manufacturing page.

UiPath is AI at work.

UIPATH.COM  | TURN AI POTENTIAL INTO AI RESULTS: 8 STEPS TO SUCCESS IN MANUFACTURING 17